operations/checklists/offboarding-checklist.md, before:

---
tags: 
  - people
  - operations
title: Offboarding Checklist
date: null
description: null
authors: 
  - Han 🐸
  - hnh
menu: playbook
type: null
hide_frontmatter: false
---

An off-boarding process must ensure three things
- Your employee feels good
- The departure causes minimal disruption.
- The termination process must be well-wrapped to make sure the company policy and procedures are all conformed.

## Account removal
Account removal should be applied for work channels, such as Basecamp or Jira. Otherwise, we welcome the employee to stay around in Discord and participate in community events. 

## Device collecting
Once the employee has finished his/her meeting with the Lead and finally have the offboarding date, the employee should wrap up his/her handover process and send back the work tools. 

That includes working device, subscription account, office key or parking card.

## Offboarding checklist
### Project Offboarding

- [ ]  Last day confirmation with client
- [ ]  Project handoff done

### Company Offboarding
- [ ]  Exit talk with lead/ mentor
- [ ]  Exit talk with HR/ Ops (Remind about Non-competitive Agreement & NDA)
- [ ]  Return access card / equipments (laptop, phone) if have
- [ ]  Remove email account
- [ ]  Remove Git account
- [ ]  Remove 1password account
- [ ]  Remove Basecamp account
- [ ]  Update Fortress profile
- [ ]  Update Discord Role → Alumni + Remove Discord Access from channels
- [ ]  Member Delete source code on their machine
- [ ]  Last day & Final paycheck informed
- [ ]  Update DF resource planning file
- [ ]  Farewell message posted
- [ ]  Update linkedin + endorse Dwarves

Commit message:

Change description and tag of the checklist  (#80)
* create: port checklist folder from notion

* change description + tag of checklist post

---------

Co-authored-by: hnh <hoanghuy2908@gmail.com>

operations/checklists/offboarding-checklist.md, after:

---
tags: 
  - people
  - operations
  - checklist
title: "Checklist: Offboarding"
date: 2020-01-01
description: The process when an employee offboard from the team.
authors: 
  - Han 🐸
  - hnh
menu: playbook
type: null
hide_frontmatter: false
---

An off-boarding process must ensure three things
- Your employee feels good
- The departure causes minimal disruption.
- The termination process must be well-wrapped to make sure the company policy and procedures are all conformed.

## Account removal
Account removal should be applied for work channels, such as Basecamp or Jira. Otherwise, we welcome the employee to stay around in Discord and participate in community events. 

## Device collecting
Once the employee has finished his/her meeting with the Lead and finally have the offboarding date, the employee should wrap up his/her handover process and send back the work tools. 

That includes working device, subscription account, office key or parking card.

## Offboarding checklist
### Project Offboarding

- [ ]  Last day confirmation with client
- [ ]  Project handoff done

### Company Offboarding
- [ ]  Exit talk with lead/ mentor
- [ ]  Exit talk with HR/ Ops (Remind about Non-competitive Agreement & NDA)
- [ ]  Return access card / equipments (laptop, phone) if have
- [ ]  Remove email account
- [ ]  Remove Git account
- [ ]  Remove 1password account
- [ ]  Remove Basecamp account
- [ ]  Update Fortress profile
- [ ]  Update Discord Role → Alumni + Remove Discord Access from channels
- [ ]  Member Delete source code on their machine
- [ ]  Last day & Final paycheck informed
- [ ]  Update DF resource planning file
- [ ]  Farewell message posted
- [ ]  Update linkedin + endorse Dwarves
